What is the battery in there?
It's fine.
It's in a machine.
Dr. Peter Abrahams, and that's right there.
Congratulations on your new book.
Well, thank you very much.
Tell me, I mean, for my purposes, this is perfect.
I'm a big baseball fan.
We're probably not going to have baseball this year.
It looks that way.
You afford me the opportunity to write an interesting piece for the first week of April.
About baseball.
About baseball, but also...
Are there any number of possibilities with this?
Certainly.
Tell me a little bit about the concept of this book.
I mean, it's certainly not just a baseball book.
It's about madness and obsession.
You know, Susan was asking me what the genesis of it was, how I began.
You know, when I started to think about this, it was at Fenway Park.
Do you mind if I shoot a couple?
No, that's all right.
Susan, didn't she send you anything?
Yeah, but I have some customers that say color, so... Oh, okay.
All right.
We offer that.
Okay.
All right.
Well, Susan said, I mean, I was at Fenway Park a few years ago with my brother, and I think we had two of my boys.
My two sons were there, too, I think.
This was the year when the Red Sox were very competitive, I think, at least at that part of the season.
And the Blue Jays were in town.
And my brother is a big Blue Jays fan.
He doesn't live here.
He lives in Los Angeles.
And he's a big Blue Jays fan.
And so he was cheering for the Blue Jays at Fenway Park.
And these two Red Sox, young male fans, began jeering him.
And they went.
It became much more than just like... Against my brother, who was... It became much more than... Okay, they had plenty to drink.
And it became much more... You know when suddenly you look at someone and you see it all in a new light and it can be quite scary?
I looked at their faces and I thought, my God, if we weren't at the ballpark, this would be... These guys are dangerous, almost.
And the image of them has stayed with me.
you know, these two guys.
I don't think my brother saw it this way particularly, but I did, and it began to stay with me.
I began to get the idea of some fan who, I mean, I was thinking about how people, me too, I mean, have, you know, follow sports, has a lot of genuine emotion invested in what obviously turns out to be the business of baseball.
You know, it's like,
I have no emotion invested in how General Motors is doing.
If the car dealer has a good week, I couldn't care less.
Whereas if the Red Sox are, you know, I do have genuine emotion invested in something where maybe you shouldn't.
And then when I look at people like this, I mean, these two fans who, you know, were in a mental state about her.
Did you see instantly the germ of a novel?
No, oh no, I didn't... No, no.
I don't... It doesn't work that way for me.
I get maybe three or four ideas a year that I think could be a novel, but I don't... When the idea comes, I just... I don't do anything with it.
I wait to see if it keeps coming back and kind of grows on its own for a while before I actually engage with it.
To make... I mean, this is just my MO, that...
and maybe it's even superstition in some ways, that if it's strong enough to keep knocking at my door, then there's something there.
If I have to, in the early stages, go get it, you know, and cudgel my brain, then it isn't going to be big enough, and I just wait for another one.
Now, this is, I think, your eighth movie, is that right?
Yes.
Fifteen years, which is pretty productive.
That's what my grandmother says, but I really think I'm slow.
I really do."
And she said, oh, Peter, you're doing it.
But I think that's great.
You just had a book last year that was shortlisted for the Edgar Award, I think.
Yeah, Lights Out.
We'll find out in April.
And here you are, 95.
It was actually ready in 94.
So, I mean, how long did it take to your write one?
It's longer and longer.
The actual writing of this, I'm not going back to when I had
the idea and when it kind of grew.
But the actual writing, I think, took about eight months.
Now, of course, the house was in its worst.
We moved in during that period.
How long have you been here?
How long has the house been under construction?
Well, we... This is not on my page, but... No, we moved in last... Okay, we had problems.
We moved in last December, and we had problems with our building.
Not the builder who was doing the garage.
He's been fabulous, and he's even ahead of schedule.
But the builder was doing the house.
I don't know what happened.
I think he has to do something with his wife.
And he lost a kind of interest and didn't come like for months at a time when we had to be in here.
Or his workers would show up for a day or two and then they'd be gone.
It was one of these Cape building stories you hear about.
We had thought we had done everything possible to avoid.
Were you living in the cave prior to this?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
We've lived here since 1982.
Oh.
Yeah.
In Woods Hole.
We were in Woods Hole before.
Really?
Yeah.
We were just going to interview Robert Ballard in a couple weeks.
He has a book coming out.
Uh-huh.
I've never even met him.
I know he is.
The book looks good.
Yeah.
If you don't mind jumping around a little bit here.
No.
You're a boss.
You might just give me a little bit of a biographical background.
Well, I was born in Boston.
Brookline, to be precise.
And my father and my mother met at the Naval Hospital during the war.
She was from Ottawa, Canada.
Which Naval Hospital?
In Boston.
I'm not sure which one.
I can call my father.
No, no, no.
It's in Boston.
Yeah.
Boston Naval Hospital.
Well, I mean, was some VA... I'm not sure because... See, my mother's Uncle Jack from Milton.
was the commanding officer of a cruiser that was sunk in the Battle of the Coral Sea.
And he's one of these horrible stories with sharks, and he was in the water for 14 hours.
And so he was in... He made it.
Yeah, he made it, and he was recovering in the hospital.
As soon as the Naval Hospital.
There is a Naval Hospital.
Yeah, with other Naval guys.
And he shared a room with my father, who was a 20-year-old...
Had he even graduated from college?
He was at Williams.
I think he had... He was 20 years old and he was commanding a sub-chaser in the Atlantic.
He was only a lieutenant junior grade, but that's what happened in Orbe.
It was unbelievable.
At his age, I couldn't get up out of bed in the morning and get to class a long time, and he was doing that.
Anyway, he was in the hospital, too, with a very bad case of athlete's foot.
With my Uncle Jack, this war hero, and my dad with athlete's foot sharing a room.
I spent a few years in the Navy.
Oh, did you?
Yeah.
Were you in the Vietnam War?
Vietnam.
I was in Lieutenant J.G., which is... So nothing's changed, right?
Nothing's changed.
So my mom came down to visit my Uncle Jack.
And that's how they met.
And in fact, they honeymooned at the Cape Cod Hotel, which is now... Do you know where that is?
It's very close to here.
It's just around the corner on Syphilissa.
And that's where... Do you still wear it?
No.
Oh, and people tried to say it was a lovely old place.
And there are condos there now.
Yeah, it turned into a whole condo thing.
They tore it down.
You know, we used to go for drinks and watch the sunset.
A real cape-y thing.
But it's condo.
I mean, this, during all the condo-ization, it went down here a few years ago.
And of course, now they're everywhere, and people have lost their shirts.
I mean, it's one of those things.
So I was born in Boston, but...
My father, after the war, went to dental school at McGill University in Montreal.
And they moved to Ottawa.
So I grew up partly in Ottawa.
And then they got divorced and my mother moved to the Bahamas.
So I spent a lot of time there too.
I went to Williams College in Massachusetts as he did.
I graduated in 68.
And a very unfortunate thing happened during, in my freshman year, they made a big rule change and made classroom attendance no longer compulsory.
And for someone like me, that was just the worst thing that could have happened.
So I really didn't know that.
But you graduated?
But I did graduate.
I'm not sure it was the best thing that I did graduate.
What was your major?
English.
But I was a really horrible student.
Until the very end, in senior year, I started getting interested in art history and took a lot of art history courses, which I really enjoyed.
And I went to class, and of course, that just, like magic, improves your grades.
You know, just being there, you know.
Let's see, what else?
In the Bahamas, I got into scuba diving and freediving.
And I used to work as a summer job as a spear fisherman down there.
And so after I got out of college, I had no idea what I wanted to do.
I kept doing spearing fish for a living.
You made a living at this?
Well, of a kind.
I mean, you didn't need much money.
And we'd go to a hotel if my brother was down there, and if not, I'd do it.
We'd say, if you give me a place to live, like on a houseboat or just a little cabin, I'll supply all the fish you need for 50 cents a pound, some really low price.
It was just an excuse to spearfish.
I mean, there's some incredible diving down there in Poms.
And we did it free diving, which is a very good sport.
more fair from a fish's point of view.
How long were you down there?
Oh, off and on for a number of years.
Kind of get us into the... becoming a writer again.
Okay, well, my mother was a writer.
And your mother's name is... She's dead now.
In fact, can you tell her your name?
Enid was her first name.
Enid Abraham?
Enid Abrahams at one time, yeah.
How was the writer?
She wrote...
Teleplays for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
And had many produced.
Great.
She was a professional writer.
Oh, yes.
When you say she's a writer, you mean she's a professional writer.
She was a professional writer.
Oh, absolutely.
And sometimes I've taught a few courses, like at the Cape Cod Writers Conference, where people come and want to be writers, and they always say, well, you know, how much of this can you learn?
And how much do you have to be born with?
You know, they ask me that over and over.
Yeah, and I don't know the answer.
But in my own case, I'm not even sure I can parse out what I was born with and what I learned, because at a very young age, I was in a class where a lot of writing happened.
Every week there'd be a composition of some kind, and I'd bring these home and show me my mother.
And she would say to me, what would happen if you put that word over there?
Or is there another way to say this?
Or how does this link up?
Or this is a word you should never use.
Okay, she had these.
And even today, I have... What are some of the words?
Oh, any linking word, like however, nevertheless, moreover.
I never use those.
You won't find them, except in direct speech, you know, where some characters use them.
But I will never use them because the links have to be logical.
Okay, that was one of the things she taught me.
I, in fact... A rule, excellent rule, right?
Oh, I think so, too.
Oh, everything she told me is right.
In fact, I kind of codified it into five laws, Enid's laws.
What happened?
Oh, let's see.
Organization is everything.
Push everything as far as you can.
Never contri... Break that one down a little bit.
Why don't we go through the five and go back?
Okay.
You can push everything as far as you can.
In other words...
Well, this is sort of related to another one, which is that fiction, like wrestling, is about reversals.
In other words, you don't ever let a character off easily out of any situation, even though to do so makes the writing much easier.
You push every situation to the absolute limit without sacrificing credibility that you can.
And I think she's right.
I mean, you get, it's in the extreme situation where, I'm not talking about being sensational.
That's, you know what I mean, like sensational, isn't it?
It's just to get to the edge.
I mean, I think you get your more exciting work there.
Okay, how many organizations have you pushed it?
And that's the one I always tell people first, because it's so dry and unarty.
And I think that's important.
Yes, organization.
You must be a very careful outliner.
No, but I believe it.
You see, the other thing is, I don't like to get trapped in the outline.
So at the beginning, my outline starts, sort of like this house, as it was being built, everything was beautiful, planned, and so well organized.
And then as it goes along, it gets more and more big.
And that's okay, because things happen in the middle of the story where, I mean, as in the fan, I mean, I, Jewel Stern, the female sports reporter, was supposed to be quite a minor figure.
And the first time she opened her mouth in the story, I knew she wasn't going to.
But she just becomes pretty important.
Yes.
Yeah, and she just grew.
And she, if I'd done an outline, she would have been very minor.
And she just, once she opened her mouth, I wanted more and more.
We probably got her.
this new breed of woman who was very knowledgeable about sports.
I was just guessing.
No, you're absolutely right.
But they're different from the... I kind of felt that they have a little more detachment from it.
I mean, they have this other perspective that comes from being a woman.
And they never, as a little boy,
because they weren't a little boy, you know, dreamed about one day putting on Yankee pinstripes, because it's an impossible dream for them.
And I think, I mean, another thing the fans are about is like all this boyhood baseball.
Well, the little league, I mean, that was terrific.
He's talking about how the good skill happened.
He's talking about the teams in double-A or triple-A or something, but it's a little league game from Kai's.
Yeah, that's right.
Anyway, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
No, you can interrupt.
I have four kids.
Organization is everything.
Push everything.
Okay, never contrive.
Did I say that?
That's your third one.
Yeah, never contrive.
Fiction is about reversals.
Yeah, like wrestling.
You know, in wrestling when you get a point...
for a reversal?
I'm talking about college wrestling.
Not the... Genuine wrestling.
Yeah, not these guys.
Not the... I know precisely what you're talking about.
Okay, not the steroid boys.
And what's the fifth one?
Oh, God, I can't believe it.
Yeah, there's another one, too.
Well, they're good rules.
I mean, I'm ready to appropriate them for my own years.
They really stood me in good stead.
So did you think your mother was prepping you for a career as a writer?
No, I don't.
I really don't.
She was just a good mom, you know, and was interested, and this was something she knew.
Did she do any fiction?
Well, only prose, no.
It was just for television.
Now, before she died, or before she got sick, actually,
She was attracting some interest from Hollywood and things were starting to happen.
And then she got breast cancer.
And quite young, she died when she was, I guess, she had just turned 50, just after her 50th birthday.
But she had the breast cancer.
Like when it came, it kind of, like five years before, or four maybe, it just put the brakes on all of that.
This was quite a while ago, thank you.
the whole career thing kind of stopped.
I mean, I don't understand it, you know.
And then she went through this whole horrible thing, and they go through, you know, where, yes, the two-year period's passed, and you're okay, and... Cancer is the worst thing.
Yeah.
And then, uh... Yeah, and then she wasn't okay.
And they found the recurrence when she went in to have plastic surgery to rebuild the breast after the mastectomy, and that's...
You know, the two-year period, you're okay.
Oh, can I go have this, rebuild that?
Yes.
It's like an elevator just that keeps going down.
So, in fact, she never, I never was a writer while she was alive.
She died in 1978, and I started writing my first book in 1979, and our first kid was born at the very end of 79, too.
See, she never saw the kids or knew that I was going to do that.
Oh, that's very bad.
Yeah, which was too bad.
Yes, I was.
From grade 1 through 12.
No, it doesn't compare, but I don't know whether it would if they were up there now either.
Yeah, they do.
They do.
You don't mind jumping around the board?
No, they do.
And there are some very good teachers.
But things have changed a lot.
Philosophically in the school system, you know, since when I was a kid, I mean, the trend was to kind of find bright kids and stream them out, you know, give them all they can handle, put them with other kids.
just like them, and enrich, and speed them a lot.
I don't know if the speeding up is so good, but the enrichment part is really good.
And now they're into more of an inclusion.
They certainly are in this school system, and bringing up the other kids and having everybody together, and so that... You're being very kind with your euphemisms.
Because people read papers here.
What's happening?
Oh, I think it's—they're dreaming.
So you were—my math is if you graduated in 68, that would make you about— Oh, I was born in 1947.
I'm 47 years old.
47 years old.
So your first book was published when you weren't even 30 yet.
Oh yeah, I was.
It was 1980, so take 15 away from 47 and— 32.
Well, no, I didn't start young.
My whole 20s, I didn't do anything like this.
I worked for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, too, for five years.
So you kind of follow your mother professionally?
Well, no, she was in the drama department.
I worked in the current affairs department.
Were you writing or an administrative type of stuff?
Neither.
I was a producer.
Well, I started as just like a story editor.
I worked for a program that's a lot like All Things Considered.
It's called As It Happens.
In fact, Susan Stamford, who used to do All Things Considered.
Well, I know her.
I mean, we met way, way back then because she would come up and watch how we did it.
It was a really good program.
It was so exciting.
I loved it.
We had a lot of BBC people came over.
Oh, they were so... Those BBC people.
They were just wonderful.
I learned so much from them about doing this show.
And it was really exciting.
You'd come in every day.
with an hour and a half of time to fill, and nothing, no programming material, unless there was a tape or two left over.
Our job was to come up with two ideas.
How often?
Every day.
And then, every day, come up with the two ideas, find the interviewee, write up some questions for the interviewer, do a pre-interview, write up some questions for the interviewer,
go down in the studio during the afternoon, tape the interview, cut it, write a little intro, an extra... Yeah, and get it in by 5.30.
It'd be kind of nice if you were the on-air person, though.
The on-air person basically is using your stuff, though, right?
Well, no, they did the interviews on live in the afternoon.
Yeah.
Oh, no, we didn't do the... We prepared the interview and did a pre-interview to make sure the person could string two words together.
Because in radio, no matter how...
So it's live, these were live?
No, we very rarely went live.
I mean, the program was packaged live, but it was done in the afternoon.
So there was an opportunity for editing?
Yeah, we cut the tapes, and we cut them physically.
Oh, I see, okay.
Okay, up on a little Ampex machine, physically, with razor blades.
And I'm very, very clumsy with my small motor.
I mean, I often had blood, and often I would mangle tapes
And so you'd be up there on this deadline with twisted tape.
How long did you do this?
Well, I did that for a year, and I just loved it.
And then they started this TV program and asked me if I wanted to go to it.
And I thought, oh, TV is a step up.
You know, that would be a wise career.
And, of course, I loathed working in television.
Radio was so much more fun.
And I began kind of...
searching around for something else to do.
And I had a lot of... I got the idea for the first book.
It was a very successful book.
It did all right.
And I had a lot of vacation time coming in.
I thought I'm going to take it in one... I think it was three months.
And I thought I'd take it in one block and they let me do that.
And just see how this goes.
And at the end of three months, the book was just about finished.
How many people say it?
Well, it happened.
Did you do this with the contract?
No, it was totally speculative.
Did you have an agent?
No, I got him after.
What was the agent?
Well, I have a new agent.
In terms of managing my career, I've been an imbecile.
But I have a wonderful agent now, whose name is Molly Friedrich.
F-R-I-E-D-R-I-C-H?
F-R-I-E-D-R-I-C-H.
Yeah, her father is Otto Friedrich, who was a member of the editor of Time.
Oh, sure.
Oh, he's written a couple of pretty good books.
Yes, he sure has.
There's one on Paris in that.
There's one on the end of the world and people's conceptions of these world endings.
Yeah, and they have pretty good books.
In fact, New York Magazine a few, maybe, what was it, a month or two ago, did a cover on the hundred smartest New Yorkers.
You know their kind of stuff.
Was he there?
No, Molly was.
Molly was?
Yeah, Molly was.
That's terrific.
Ever since I landed with her, which was for this book.
Is this your first with Warner?
Yeah, Lights Out and Revolution No.
9.
were with Mysterious, which is owned by Warren.
That's right.
Yeah, now... Okay, yeah, okay.
Oh, that's great.
Where was he?
In Boston?
Yeah.
You talk about not outlining, just parenthetically, he said this book.
He had a 254 page outline.
Wow.
No, I couldn't.
My outlines are...
Maybe 12 pages or something.
I like these organic things.
They just kind of grow.
But it is very carefully plotted, I have to say.
Your book is very carefully plotted.
See, I have to know that I'm going to hit these wave stations.
If I just know in my own mind that, okay, there's going to be this scene here, and I can get to it, and then Z is going to be something like this, I'm okay.
I have all these warning bells that go off in my mind if something's wrong.
For me, it's not a situation of like, I'm blocked, I can't think of how to do it.
I always can think of several ways, and the question is, what is the best way?
So I have to kind of, in my mind, it's like dominoes, think them all the way through.
If I go this way, I love this now, on page 80, what's it going to be like on page 250 if I do this?
That's the
It's almost like a computer, the plotting part.
You have to just... permutations.
Now, I've got a theory.
These are not the Boston Red Sox.
These are the Sox.
Yes.
However, it's Boston.
That's clear.
The terrain is very... And you really don't libel the ball team, so I'm... My guess is that maybe the mascot has something to do with it.
Yes, the Red Sox don't have a mascot, of course.
And they were adamantly opposed to doing that kind of a thing.
And I have to tell you, because I'm trying to do a lot of reading, that was a giveaway for me earlier.
I felt, not a giveaway, I felt this mascot, not here gratuitously, this mascot is here for a reason.
That's good.
That's my sense.
A good writer doesn't just throw something in here for the sake of having it there.
And the Red Sox have never had a mascot.
That was a technical reason why I didn't do Red Sox, but I had other reasons too.
that are really much harder to put into words.
But sometimes if I... I didn't want to use a real team because I didn't want to be trapped in their real history.
Yeah, but you are.
This is their first team.
You can win the world championship in fourth straight.
Yes, but I... Finally, hallelujah.
It's true, but I wanted to be free.
Okay, this is what.
I wanted the freedom to...
Are you going to have coffee?
I wouldn't mind a cup.
It would be great.
What do you like in it?
Just black for me.
Nothing.
You sure?
No milk.
Just milk.
And just black for me.
I didn't want to get... I want to be able to make my... The red light's on.
Okay.
Just do a visual check.
Everything's fine.
All right.
Is it turning?
Yeah, it's turning.
I don't want to get... I want to have the freedom to... It was a question of freedom.
to move away from... I didn't want to have to describe any city exactly.
Oh, there's no question that it's Boston.
But there's no question that it's Boston.
I know.
Okay, you and I know that, but there have been other pre-publications.
Well, you know what?
The Library Journal suggests the Chicago website.
Exactly.
That's what I was going to bring up.
I couldn't believe it.
I was just reading this on the way down.
I said, who?
Unbelievable.
I know.
Exactly.
So, there you go.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
Okay, and in fact, even my editor...
when I gave him the first hundred pages, said, oh, is this Boston or Chicago?
He doesn't know baseball.
See, a lot of people don't.
Like this guy from the Globe, you know, who confesses that he doesn't like baseball, or doesn't know much, or doesn't even like it.
But that was the good thing, because I was trying to, this book isn't just for baseball people.
No, of course not.
And that's why that Globe review I like, because he said he doesn't like baseball, but he likes the book.
Well, I think the triumph of the book is really that, as I was telling Connie on the way down, the way you really track this guy's descent into madness is very cleverly done.
He's kind of a jerk at the beginning, but he's not sociopathic at the point.
Well, that's the pushing it as far as you can.
I mean, it's taking the fandom and just going with it.
I mean, are there any, I mean, the stabbing of Monica Sellis, for instance?
That happened after I had, the stabbing of Monica Sellis happened after.
After you started the book?
Yes, after I had the whole, not after I started writing, but it happened after I had that all planned out.
Especially the kind of thing that,
Yes, exactly.
But that didn't... In fact, I didn't like it when it happened, the Monica Seles thing, because I thought, oh my God, they're going to say... He ripped off the Monica... Gill as a knife salesman was the very first thing in terms of Gill.
And I knew it had to end.
And also being a knife thrower and all this, I knew there was going to be a scene where he... He's terrific with the knife.
Yeah, where he...
So that was all set.
And then when this jerk jumps out of the tennis, you know, stands and... This guy screwed up my book.
Yeah, that's right.
I hated him.
You saw that potential back at the beginning of your brother, that ugly thing.
That chain, yeah.
Yeah, that's... Bringing it, stretching it to the... Yes, exactly.
...where you saw.
Yeah.
But it's rampant.
It's not unique.
I mean, the last time we went to an NFL game was years ago, and there was this one guy there cheering for Buffalo.
In fact, we saw O'Shea Simpson playing this game.
I said, oh yeah, I've never gone back to a game since.
It was very, very uncomfortable.
Was this at Foxborough?
Yeah, same thing.
I was going to tear this guy apart for cheering for my fault.
The guy says, hey, that's cool.
I won't see how it will work.
I know.
Well, that's what I'm talking about, like this deep emotional investment.
As though this really is a war, and these people are really carrying your pennant into battle.
Yeah.
And of course we see the soccer riots in Europe.
Crazy.
Yeah.
But, you know, one of the things this strike proves is that this is not a war.
This is not our army with their uniforms, you know.
Well, I think the fans are, for the most part, pretty resilient.
I think baseball's going to find that we can probably live without the major league.
Ah, jeez.
I just don't know.
I mean, have you seen some of those photographs that have been published?
There have been several.
I mean, there's always the same photograph.
It's a coach.
I mean, a real coach from the team glancing or looking at the replacement players working out.
Have you seen any of those photographs?
I don't know.
Okay.
And there was the Times-published one.
And Sports Illustrated had it, too.
Oh, my.
Guy, where is that Sports Illustrated?
There's a hilarious photograph.
Anyway, there's always something... I don't know.
It was the one with replacement players.
When's he coming home from school?
Anyway, there's always something wrong with the replacement players.
And even you can see it.
They don't look like
I mean, even you, not just the coach can see it.
You know, he's obviously in his mind aghast at this, or even disgusted that he has to... Now, these guys are probably very good at baseball, but... Thanks, guys.
But there's such a huge gulf even between these guys who've lived... A lot of these replacement guys must have lived a life of baseball and hoping and hoping the whole time that they're still... You know, let's say you moved it to another field, like music.
You know, it would be fun after a few drinks over at their house if they sat down at the piano and you all sang songs together.
But you wouldn't go to Carnegie Hall to hear them.
And I think it's the same with these professional ball fans.
You know, that's the level they're on there, the kind you go to Carnegie Hall for.
Were you trying to explore themes of fantasy, where fantasy meets reality, recession, or mainly, fundamentally trying to tell a good story?
Oh, I'm fundamentally trying to, oh, I never let the themes or anything clutter up.
This is supposed to be a good story.
But, you know, I find I, unless there's some meat in it, I myself can't sustain the interest.
Now, also, I don't think it's a good story.
I mean, I can't, in my own reading, if it's just a book that's pure entertainment, as they call it, you know, with incidents, and I can't.
It doesn't hold me.
Well, I mean, where do you put yourself?
I've interviewed...
who considers himself an entertainer.
And he's very good at it.
Well, he was.
I think he was alive.
Di, Charlie.
Charlie's going crazy.
It's just the costume.
What a ham.
My God.
Look, he's shaking, you know, as if he's...
No.
I'll get to this on the transcription, you know.
I'll be listening.
Okay, come on, let's go.
Well, Tom Clancy, yeah.
Well, entertainment.
say that you're an entertainer, or would you go beyond that?
You say that it doesn't have a little bit of a bite to it, and you yourself get bored.
Okay, I'm an entertainer.
No, it's that.
Yes, but it's in... You know, I don't know if you know, have you read any Graham Greene at all?
Well, he called... He divided his work into two.
I mean, the ones like The Power and the Glory were his novels, or whatever he called them, and the ones like...
Stamboul train, a gun for sale, he called those as entertainments.
I aspire to writing entertainments of that nature.
Probably because of those that Graham Greene was never given a Nobel Prize.
Oh, I think so.
Because he entertained them.
People liked him too much.
Yes, that's right.
He was too accessible in a kind of way.
But I think he was great.
And I think the entertainments are better than the novels generally.
I think he gets the whole, the same depth and profundity, and he gets it quicker in what he called his entertainment.
I mean, that's just my opinion.
But...
So when you began writing your first book, did you have in mind a thriller, an audience, a certain kind of a reader that you were writing for?
No.
I just wanted to— Did you perceive it as commercial fiction, literary fiction, what?
I didn't come at it from that point of view.
I just wanted to tell this—I had the idea for the story, and I just wanted to see if I could do it.
I hadn't thought it out in those terms.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's great.
This is the picture.
That could be me, for my sake.
I mean, I would look much different.
And the coach's face.
Oh, the dream of that kind of thing.
Don't you respect Swackney Anderson?
Oh, tremendously.
He's 26 victories away from going into the third most victories of all time.
And he might have just pissed off his career.
But he said, I don't want an asterisk next to my record.
I'd just assume take fourth place the way it is with Major League fourth place.
Whatever.
Of course he's making $1.2 million and he's 61 and he can do this.
But it's still a pretty gussy call.
Yes, it is, and none of the others are doing it.
You know, and plenty of them are making big money, too, and don't have to worry.
No, I think it's terrific.
Well, I always like him.
He's my favorite manager.
What a write-up they gave him in the New York Times.
A profile in courage.
I didn't see that.
Why did that stop the phrase that you didn't like?
That's Kennedy's record.
No, I agree with you totally.
I don't know.
The thematic stuff just, or whatever you want to call it,
I mean, there's, it's just, I don't know, it's hard to explain.
I don't plan for it, but the story that, the stories that interest me have, have something to that.
That's all.
This is a cipher of movies, Tri-Star, I guess.
They've hired Cal Ripken to be the baseball consultant.
Yeah.
Well, he's got nothing else to do.
What will the film in Camping Yards do you think are up here?
I don't know.
Oh, I don't know what they'll, I mean, they fake all that, you know.
Are you going to have a ballpark?
Yeah, they have to have a ballpark.
I don't know.
Maybe a league ballpark, a little bandbox in a ballpark.
Yeah, they could use a mile.
I don't know how they're going to do it.
They have... So it is in production?
Oh, no, it isn't in production.
They just signed a director this week.
Are you going to do these scripts?
No, the script's done.
It was written by some Hollywood pro.
It's done, and apparently...
The producer loves it.
Her name is Wendy Feinerman.
She co-produced Forrest Gump, and I think she's a real bulldog type.
I've only spoken to her once, but I read an article about the making of Forrest Gump and how she had this for nine years, and she just kept pushing and pushing.
Are you going to be involved in this, or is it pretty much fair?
Oh, I'm uninvolved.
They're very polite to me and really nice.
There's no, I have no raison d'etre there at all.
I asked George Higgins about Eddie Coyle and he said, once the check cleared the bank, he said I was out of the loop and happy to bring this up.
Okay, no, you know, that's, I've had, Lights Out is at Paramount, the previous book, and not a deal like the TriStar.
The TriStar was this buyout where it's gone.
It's theirs.
Do they buy the characters too?
Do you have, can you bring the characters, anything else?
I still, there is some language in that about that in the contract, but it was too long to finish reading.
There are always other books you can't read.
I can't, no, I can't.
See, I'm bad at that.
I hope I was taken care of by my agent.
I don't really read through the contract.
But with Lights Out, it was an auction situation.
The producers are
These people at Paramount named Neufeld Ramey Productions, who do, they do the Tom Plansky ones, by the way, like Red October.
They do great, in my opinion.
And I was, they, they improve the work.
Well, they make it, they transform it into a film.
Yeah, but they do a real nice job.
You don't say they make it, they improve it.
Okay.
Yeah, I don't.
Or you can if you want.
No, don't let me say that.
Please don't use that.
No.
I know how this stuff looks in quote.
Yeah, don't say that.
They do a very nice job.
And, yeah, please don't do that to me.
I wouldn't say that.
Okay.
But they took an option on it, and they hired a couple writers, and nothing happened.
I mean, they didn't get what they wanted.
I was out to see my brother and sister over Christmas in Los Angeles.
A little Canadian accent.
What, on out?
Yeah.
Sometimes.
Well, you know, I really don't even know how to spell a lot of words because I was educated in both places and I have different spellings.
I make a lot on the States that way.
I went to L.A.
to see my brother and sister.
And while I was there, I called, you know, I have an agent out there who handles the movie.
And I called him to say hi, I'm out here.
And he said, oh, well, why don't you, do you want to meet these guys, Bob Ramey and Mace Neufeldt?
why you're here.
And I said, sure.
And he said, okay, we'll go over and see him.
I'll set up a meeting.
And he did.
And I went over and we had, just Bob Ramey was there, and we had this talk.
And he was a very impressive guy and, I mean, really knew the book, you know, wasn't, yeah, the ins and outs of it.
And we began talking about he wasn't happy with what he'd been getting.
And he said, do you, you know, I began just saying certain things I would do.
And the upshot is that I'm now doing a screenplay
for it lights out.
I mean, it just came out of this little meeting.
That's good.
Yeah, so... Are you doing it here?
Do you have to do it?
No, I'm doing it here, and that's what I'm working on right now.
I'm about, oh... I think they're short, right?
120 pages?
120 pages, and I'm on about 40 right now.
And I just started a couple weeks ago, so it doesn't... Yeah, I mean, it's a different kind of thing.
But I have a... I mean, I have the idea for the next book, too, but I didn't think this would take long, and
You write visually.
I have to say that it's very visually.
It shouldn't be that difficult.
Elroy's books, for instance, I mean, I think they've all been options.
I don't think any of them have been done.
I mean, his books are almost impossible to transform into films.
I think yours, on the other hand, really lend themselves to that.
You must be thinking visually.
Oh, I think I do.
Yeah.
That's one of the things I like about it.
As a human being you have a real emotional life, right?
But as a writer I have this almost emotional life that I can go hide in.
Or sink into when I'm working.
Yeah, these scenes are very vivid in my mind and I'm sort of there.
Are you a baseball fanatic?
I'm not a fanatic, but I'm certainly a fan.
And both my sons play.
Seth is in his, let's see, he's a freshman in high school so he's going to be playing there and he's in his last year at Babe Ruth.
And Ben just finished Little League and he's going to be in his first year at Babe Ruth.
And they're both, you know, very good, you know, for local baseball players.
And they love the game.
And of course that's another, this little, so I've watched a million Little League games now.
I love Little League games.
You know, I've seen things there, too, that were useful in this.
Yes, I like them, too.
Do you see the parents that, I mean, have Gill at his kid's game?
I've never seen anything to that degree, but I've certainly seen things.
It's unbelievable, isn't it?
Yeah.
Or just get too emotionally involved with it.
I think he snaps at that game, as a matter of fact.
Maybe he snaps a little earlier than that.
I think he goes over... I mean there's a point of no return there.
Basically removing the job, too, I hear.
Yeah.
You've got to do half your backwoods at that point.
The Maine.
Oh, the Maine.
I went to school up in Maine.
Oh, did you?
I'm kind of familiar with that subculture up there.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I've been up there.
So what are you working on now after this?
Oh, I have a new idea.
It's pretty much planned out.
And as soon as I finish the screenplay, I'm going to start writing.
With water?
Is this a one-book deal?
This is a one-book deal, and we'll see where we take it.
I mean, they are the first.
Have you ever had an auction before?
Have you had options?
The first book was auctioned.
Which is amazing, isn't it?
Yeah.
The first book out.
Tell me a little bit about that.
You had an agent.
That's not this agent that you had.
Yeah, and he... I mean, I didn't know... I gave the book to him, I think, in July.
And he...
And I didn't hear from him at all.
And then in September he called me up and he said, oh, hi, yeah, I've read it.
I love the book.
And there'll be an auction on December, whatever it was.
I mean, he submits the thing in July and they have an auction in December.
Yeah.
That's pretty good.
And so... You didn't even hear from these people for nine months.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, it was a very...
It was very exciting.
Who was the first publisher?
It was Macmillan.
Oh, Macmillan did it.
Yeah.
That book did very well, I think.
It did.
I think it did quite well.
I mean, don't print this, but it probably would have been better if we hadn't gone with Macmillan.
That was a mistake.
That I didn't know was a mistake.
I mean, because I knew nothing then.
How so?
Because fiction, they just didn't do it.
Especially the thriller-type version.
I would have been better across the hall with Scribdness, for instance, because they do a lot of it.
Yes, and Simon Schuster wanted it, too, and they're willing to pay all the rest as much.
Yeah, money.
But I didn't know.
But, you know, they won the auction.
How did they deal with the marketing end of it?
Well, not so well.
Oh, that's incredible.
Yeah.
So you did one book with them, I guess?
I only did one book with them.
Well, then I was with Dutton for a number of years.
Dutton is a good thing.
Yeah, but you see, they... They changed their liking.
Yes, and when that happened, all the people who I had worked with were gone.
Like, instantly.
And that's when we went to Mysterious.
Where I'm really, I mean, and Warner, but I have the same editor that I had in Mysterious.
He's Bill Malloy.
who's the editor-in-chief at Mysterious, and he'll do things for Warner, too.
He's a character, isn't he?
I've met him a few times, yeah.
I've met him at a couple of ABAs.
He's a fanatical book collector.
He's one guy we should have talked to.
He's got his own bookstore in New York, and his own press.
Okay, well, see, the garage hasn't finished yet, so I don't.
They just urethaned the floor yesterday.
I write in our bedroom, on a K-Pro computer.
Do you know what that is, Edwin?
No.
Okay.
They're not made anymore.
I haven't been for years.
It's a, I mean, it's the most primitive.
I got it, I think, in 1983 or 4.
And my brother's always saying to me, Pete, you know, you got in on this, you know, technical revolution and then stopped on the first rung of the ladder.
During the last half of the fan, it began to scroll uncontrollably.
And so I wrote it, the last half of that book, with the screen going like this.
Are you being stubborn here?
Well, no.
A laptop is coming on Friday.
Diana finally said, you know, you jerk.
And she ordered it.
You should get yourself a nice big hard disk with a very fast... That's what we're getting.
I'm going to have to set up with this laptop.
but also a big monitor and a real keyboard so that I can work up there in a non-portable situation or take it if I want to.
What kind of software do you use?
What I use now is something that... I just know that they give the model number.
I think it's a one point something.
One DOS, right?
It's not even DOS.
It's CPM.
It's not even Doc.
See, for the screenplay I thought, and also with his scrolling it's really hard on my eyes.
Do you do much revision?
Are you a reviser?
No, I'm not.
One draft?
Pretty much.
But see I have a number, one of my, I have my own little rules too.
go on to the next sentence until I'm satisfied with the one that went before.
And I don't go on to the next paragraph until I'm happy with it.
And then when I get to each chapter, I go over it right there.
So at the end, I don't have much to do.
And when I do, I don't cut.
So it's constant revision.
It's constant revision, but at the end, it's done.
And I'm not a cutter either.
In fact, I just understood this the other day.
I suppose deep down, I'm sort of a romantic.
But my working method is as a minimalist.
So in fact what I find is, at the end I add.
On that sort of swipe through the little slot, the last one is I add stuff, you know.
That's a good quote.
Do you have a sense of who you read or who you write for?
I really don't.
Is there a male reader?
Oh, no.
Either.
Yeah, I don't think in... Just readers would like a good story.
I don't... I mean, you've really got the suspense thing down.
Yeah, it is suspense fiction.
I mean, or crime fiction.
But I'd hope that anyone who likes a good story would like it.
I don't want to exclude... I don't see anything in it that would exclude any type of reader.
I've read P.W.
Gideon Stern.
Yeah.
Home writing.
Knocks it out of the park.
Yeah.
Yes.
It's the... The signs are... Yeah.
I mean, they... You name your two sons.
You have four kids.
Yeah.
They're Seth.
How do I actually give us all of them?
Okay.
Seth's 15.
Ben is 12.
Lily is 10.
And Rosie is... Lily's 1L.
Lily's 1L is 10.
And Rosie is 5.
R-O-S.
I-E.
And so your wife...
Diana, D-I-A-N-A, and she uses her real name, I mean her name, Gray, G-R-A-Y, and the kids are hyphenated, Abrahams hyphen Gray, and at the school they're usually Gray, you know, they simplify it.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
That's cool.
So, well, I guess, I mean, this shows... You've got to recap it with the computers and stuff.
Oh, no, yeah, and if you take them to the doctor,
You know, if you go to the hospital and they always look you up, well, is it Gray, is it Abraham's?
I mean, you know, we can never, can't remember what we told them that time.
We can never really find them in the computer.
I don't know.
We, I mean, maybe it's a dated thing.
I mean, when we got married and everything, lots of people were doing that.
I guess it doesn't sort of happen anymore.
Whatever you're comfortable with.
Yeah.
Oh, no, I'm comfortable with it.
You know, of course, when they, if they go out and marry people the same thing,
generations who are also hyphenated.
Extremely complex names.
Like very old European aristocrats, which we're not.
Have I missed anything, Claudia, I should ask, Peter?
Yeah, it's like an hour.
Well, you know, if there's anything... Maybe you'll give me your phone number, and if you have questions, I can give you a call.
It's 508...
508.
540-6703.
Okay, good.
Excellent.